---
title: 'Transfer experience and advice (Updating)'
date: 2022-11-19
permalink: /2022-11-19-blog-post-3/
tags:
  - Academic
---

Genral Process
======
1. Check deadlines on school websites.
2. Check requirements for different programs. Expecially coursework requirements. 
3. Ask for recommendation letters from your professors. 2 letters are enough for almost all schools.
4. Fill out profiles on application platforms like CommonApp.
5. Write essays for different schools. 
6. Prepare for college report, midterm report, etc. They are available in CommonApp or shool websites. You will need signatures from registrator/advisor.
7. Finish your application. Make sure recommendation letters and transcripts are sent beofore deadlines.

Experience
------
I applied to multiple schools, all in TOP30. Only two schools accepted me. At WashU, I was accepted into the school of engineering. In contrast, for the other school, Umich, I could only get into the college of literature, arts, and science to study CS with different requirements of liberal arts. So I went here. 

After I came here, I noticed that it is much easier to transfer between US schools than from outside the US. Most admission officers have no idea about your school’s level if you come from a school outside of the US, and there are different grading schemes for GPA. It is the same for grad school applications. Students from CUHK and other Top3 HK schools cannot get into a decent CS Master program in the US due to the severe GPA deflation.


Advice
------
My advice: only select two or three schools. This way you won't need to put too much effort into your transfer applications and can decide whether you want to transfer out or not after you receive your offers without considering sunk costs. Otherwise, you will spend too much time. I wrote 10+ application essays in a month and it almost destroyed me. My regular sleep time became 4am.

For CS, the best candidates for CUHK students or students in any of Top3 universities in HK and similar level schools in China are the Umich LSA CS program, UIUC CS+#, UT Austin, University of Wisconsin–Madison, etc. Basically all big public schools. UC system schools are very hard to get into if you are out-state or international. Umich is one of the easiest TOP30 schools to get into with many successful cases. It seems that you can get in with a minimum of 3.5/3.6 GPA. No private schools are worth applying for. They are pure lotteries if you are from a school outside of the USA. WashU only accepted around 10 or 20 engineering students.

Except for GPA, other stuff in your CV are not so important, unless you have a paper published or something at the same level. Essay writing is very important. You better refer to some online instructions or books.



