---
title: 'First month in the US'
date: 2022-10-07
permalink: /2022-10-07-blog-post-2/
tags:
  - Life
---

First month in the US, St. Louis, WashU
City & School
====

I had never heard of the city of St. Louis before and only got to know the name of Washington University from college rankings. The whole city just feels like a suburban area to me, and public transportation is very inconvenient. But the people here are very friendly and hospitable. Temperature differences between night and day are very large and could be lower than 10 °C at night and higher than 30 °C at noon. The university is about the same size of CUHK. Buildings are old and all colored in red. Foods are the worst part. They are expensive and not enough for me as a person who do not eat breakfast. 10$ per meal is too much for me and I am already running out of my meal points. I find it urgent to get a paid position in a lab or something.

Academic
====

Students here at WashU are generally much more hard-working. I can see most of the students taking notes no matter what course it is. Even if lecture notes cover most of the contents, they still type like crazy on their google docs during the entire class.

CS courses are mostly taught by lecturers. They are usually more willing to answer your questions during or outside the class. But for some small-class-size classes, there are no TAs. In some courses, professors/lecturers are too lazy to prepare for lecture notes and only write everything on the blackboards with bad handwriting. 
Some programming intensive courses offer lecture videos before the class and just let you finish some labs in the class(or you may check-in and leave). There is no teaching in the classroom. I'm not too fond of this way of teaching. 

I have taken one course in arts/science (Global Energy and American Dreams). The professor is so biased that he keeps blaming everything on the US government and capitalism. I literally haven't heard of a single possitive word out of his mouth about the US, and heard him brag something about the Lenin's Soviet Uninon and the Marxism. Liber arts education at CUHK is better than here at WashU in the sense that teachers focus more on critical thinking.

I am still struggling with the research I have been doing in the summer at CUHK in the hope of publishing a paper. I really hope that I can find a ra position in the lab here at WashU as soon as possible.
